So before you start with a project tasks let me
give you a tour of the student version of a code.
You will already be familiar with the basic structure as
it has been built on top of the midterm projects.
I suggest that you grab a copy of a program
schematic and look at it while we go through the code.
So let's start. So the basis of this code is basically the midterm projects.
So you should be familiar with many of the structures and
includes and also initializations we have been using previously as well.
But let's start from the top.
So we have a whole bunch of includes, including STL includes,
as well as OpenCV includes here,
and also we have our proprietary includes,
which are basically the different parts of
the projects which are concerned with 2D matching,
object detection using yolo,
processing lidar data and also performing fusion between
lidar and camera data which is all in camFusion.hpp.
So let's start with main program first.
So the first thing which we do here is we initialize
the variables and data structures which we need for our project.
The first is the data path,
it's currently relative to the location of the executable.
Then, we specify the image base path which is
also the image prefix which is currently such as the KITTI data search.
That's the highway scenario with the preceding vehicle right in front of us.
Image dash O2 means it's the color version of the image,
not the grayscale version.
I think in the midterm projects we have been
using the grayscale version but now we are using the color version.
Then, we are specifying the start index and the end index which is currently set to 18.
Step width is a new variable which you can
use to play around a little to decrease the frame rate.
So our current frame rate is set to 10 images per second.
But we might skip every second image just to have
larger disparities between key points or maybe
to see how matching can be performed if the time between two instances increases.
So you can play around a little bit,
but currently in this project step width is set to one.
So we are using every image.
Then we specify the base parameters of yolo.
Base path, classes file,
model configuration file also the model weights you have been using those previously.
Then, we specify the lidar up point data,
the prefix as well as the file type.
Then, we know this whole bunch of calibration information which
you already know from the previous exercises.
Basically, it's the intrinsic camera calibration matrix,
the rotation matrix for relating left and
right camera of the stereo setup in the KITTI vehicle.
Then, we have the extrinsic information which is rotation and translation
and these are all the numbers which I took from the KITTI camera calibration file.
Which has been shipped with the image sequence we are using.
If you want to use another sequence please remember to replace
those with the respective calibration files which are
the same file folder when you download and extract one of the KITTI sensor setups
or sensor sequences you will find the calibration files there.
Okay. So what else?
We have some miscellaneous variables here which is the sense of
frame rate 10 hertz scaled by the image step width.
So if we go down to let's say
only every second image this gets scaled down to five hertz accordingly.
Okay. Data buffer size currently two and this is the data buffer which is going
to hold all the data frames which we will assemble in the following.
This visualization variable here it's always set to false and
my suggestion is to set it to true only at selected positions in the code.
If you set it to true here you're going to get a display of
a whole bunch of different windows and it's a
little bit hard to keep track of what is what.
So I would suggest to look at all the codes steps one by one and only set
visualization true right in front of the respective step which you want
to visualize and to false directly afterwards.
Okay. Then, we have the main image loop of all the images.
We do load the images into a buffer.
Note that here's a small difference to the midterm project.
We do read the image from file here but it's
the color image and we do not convert to grayscale right away but instead,
we push back the frame including the color image.
That's the difference.
Okay. Then, comes the part where we detect and classify the objects.
We have some parameters here: confidence,
threshold, and maximum suppression threshold.
Then, we perform the yolo based object detection here.
Which is done in this step and note that we
are inputting a link to the data buffer camera image,
data buffer bounding boxes,
and the data buffer bounding boxes,
they are augmented with the rectangle around detected objects.
So that's basically the output of the detect objects method.
We are adding in rectangles into the bounding boxes here.
In the next step, we are going to crop all lidar point cloud.
Well, first of all, we're going to load the lidar point from file.
Then, we are going to remove some points
based on some special properties here crop lidar points.
Currently, the code is said to have a minZ,
a minHeight value above road surface of minus 1.5 meters,
that's slightly above road surface.
If you had a sequence with an inclined when you are driving up
a steep slope or something like this or a very deep pothole, so to speak,
or a bump on the road,
then this would lead to errors in
the TTC computation later on because by doing this very simple cropping here
basically what we do is we assume a level road surface
and if the reality deviates strongly from this assumption,
we would have to take different measures to avoid
using points from the road surface as
obstacle information but this leads to far for this course.
So I'm just mentioning this because I want you to know that the working assumption we are
having here is that we are assuming
a level road surface for the sequences we process here.
Okay. The maxZ value is minus 0.9 meters.
Into driving direction, we start looking onwards from
two meters to 20 meters and in y we are looking to
the left for two meters and to the right also for two meters and
the minimum reflectivity has been set to 0.1 or in range between zero and one.
One is the highest reflectivity and 0.0 is the lowest reflectivity.
But it's still a point which comes back.
So, 0.0 it does not mean there is nothing coming back.
It's still a valid point but only the reflectivity is really null.
We are focusing on the ego lane here,
so the goal is to compute the TTC and not to display all the objects.
We are focusing on the ego lane.
If you want to include a left and right lane and also look a bit
further maybe you can of course play around with these values here
but for the point cloud based TTC estimation later on we have to focus on the ego lane.
Okay. Then, we push the lidar points into
the data buffer and then we move on to clustering the actual lidar point clouds.
We have discuss this function before,
cluster lidar with ROI.
The shrink factor relates to the bounding box or the region of interest,
size of the returned yolo objects.
We're making it a bit smaller by 10 percent.
Just to avoid that points from unrelated objects creep in over the corners,
over the boundaries of the rectangles which are
almost all the times when you look at the objects they are a little bit too large.
So we shrink them here to avoid this from happening a little bit.
Then, we have the first visualization here.
Visualize 3D objects.
So, actually if you set bVis to true right
before then we will focus only on showing the 3D objects,
which is a display which you already know from the course lectures.
You saw a screenshot of this white's top view perspective with
all the 3D objects visualized as rectangles with
some information and you can run this code and set bVis to true and
then you will get the same visual as you saw in the lecture as a still image.
Okay. That's basically about it.
That's the state of the affairs so to speak,
before the mid-term project actually starts.
The goal of the midterm project is to have you track 3D objects over time and what we
get until this point we create 3D objects for each timestep individually,
and if you just want to run the code and see what's happening,
you can execute it and at this line here we basically spare
out the entire stuff which happens right afterwards from happening.
So we can only focus on creating 3D objects using
object protection based on yolo and clustering lidar points.
If you want to move on you have to comment out this continue statement here and then we
progress to the actual part where the final project starts and revolves around.
But before we get to your task and the final project let's
look at what's already being done here.
What you already have done.
So the first step is to detect image key points.
This is now the step where we converge the image to grayscale.
We're not doing this for the yolo-based object detection, actually,
the results for the deep learning framework
are much worse if we only input grayscale image.
It has been trained with color and if we
take away the color the results are really much worse.
You can try this out and see why it makes sense to use the color image instead.
But here for key point detection,
we actually do need grayscale images,
which is why we convert them to grayscale here.
Okay. Then, comes the part where you can select a detector.
As you can see here this is the student version of the midterm project.
You should now have a coding framework that has a much
more included here including brisk and areas and sift
and all the other detectors which you were tasked with implementing
and once you download this final project student version here,
you can simply copy and paste your version of
the midterm into this area here and you would have
the same key point detection and tracking method as you now have in the midterm project.
Okay. That's key point detection.
Then, of course, we can also limit the number of
key points here but that doesn't make much sense at this point,
so I would leave this set to false but
nonetheless if you want to visualize key point matches you can set this
to true and this is going to limit the number of key points
to 50 which gives you a better overview of what's happening.
So next step is extract key point descriptors,
and this is also already familiar we can select a whole bunch of descriptors here
and desk key points is inside matching 2D,
the student version and you could of course replace this function with
your own code from the midterm Project which
gives you access to all those different descriptors here.
Currently, we only have brisk available in the Final Project source code.
So once this is done and we have at least processed two images,
this is the place where we enter this area here,
data buffer size greater than one larger than one.
The first thing we do is we match the descriptors
and here goes the same what I just mentioned,
you can take your version from the midterm Project and
replace match descriptors with your own code which has
all the stuff implemented which you can see here
the flood based matching and also the k-nearest neighbor based matching,
which you have been doing for the matching project.
So here comes the first assignment,
up until this point what we do have is a set of 3D objects in space,
one for each time step and we have a whole set
of key point matches between images all over
the image without having looked at a single region of
interests or bounding box or object yet that has not been done.
What I want you to do as the first assignment and we're going to look into this
in greater detail once we get to this respective task in a few minutes,
I want you to write a function which is
called match bounding boxes which takes as an input,
the previous data buffer,
the current data buffer and that gives you as output a map which contains
the index numbers of the bounding boxes
which have been found to corresponds together between two time steps,
that's the first task.
Then we write those bounding box best matches into the current data buffer.
That's what's happening here.
Then we move on to the next part,
which is basically the computation of the TTC on the object right in front.
What we do here is we loop over all bounding box match pairs which we have font,
so bbMatches begin to bbMatches end.
That's the result of your first task,
which is looped over here and this block of code here what it does is
basically it gives you a pointer to the bounding box in the current frame,
the first match pair in the current frame.
This code here by comparing bounding box IDs to other bounding boxes in our data buffer,
we get the previous bounding box.
So basically, after arriving here in line 254,
what you have is two pointers,
one pointer to a bounding box in the previous frame
and another pointer to a bounding box in the current frame
and both have been matched using
the method you would have implemented here in match bounding boxes.
Once you have this match pair,
what we can do or what we must do is we must check whether
both bounding boxes have lidar points associated to them.
We couldn't do lidar Base TTC estimation if a bounding box was devoid of lidar points.
So we are checking whether the current bounding box has lidar points associated to it,
as well as the previous bounding box.
Then comes your second student assignment.
So what I want you to do now,
is I want you to compute the time to collision based on lidar measurements alone.
As an input, you would take the lidar points and
the previous bounding box lidar points and the current bounding box,
the sense of frame rate,
and an output as a result you would fill in this variable here which is called TTC Lidar.
Now in the next student assignment task three and also task four,
they both go together,
you would need to associate key point matches with bounding boxes.
So currently we have bounding boxes which only have been associated a set of
lidar points and what we need in order to perform
TTC based estimation using the camera for each bounding box,
we need a set of matched key points which are enclosed by a specific bounding box.
We will look into this a bit more closely once we got to the respective task.
But the basic idea here is to look at
the region of interest for a certain bounding box in the camera image,
look at which key point correspondences
key point matches are enclosed within this region of interest,
and then take those and associate them to the bounding box,
with the idea behind that we will use those key point matches to find
the corresponding bounding box in
the next image to associate the two bounding boxes over time.
That's the end of the fourth student assignment.
Basically, that's also the end of the final project.
What's happening here is here you will be visualizing the results.
We will be looking at an overlay of lidar points over the image,
we will have a view on the detected rectangle which
is the display of the respective region of interests,
that means the detected vehicle or a truck or whatever,
it might have been present in the image.
Then we will augment the image with information
about the time to collision computed from lidar,
time to collision could be from camera,
and that's the display code for the actual.
Now, as you have seen the code is basically an extended version of the mid-term projects.
Also the major concepts of the last lesson which you should know
from some of the exercises have already been implemented.
So let's now move forward to the first task,
which is about matching 3D objects over time using key point correspondences.